#summary Why, what, for who, ... at a glance

NUL intend to be a language able to express anything another language can express.
NUL is an assertive or an affirmative language and not an imperative language. This means that the work done is made by writing the knowledge we have of a situation more than the steps needed to solve a problem. People used to PROLOG, LOGO or even SQL languages will find in NUL something they know, while the syntax now used will allow C/C++, Java and Javascript programmers to step easily in it.

What does it means pragmatically : As a first example, the equality "=" sign has, beside a characteristic, the same meaning as in C languages : "a = b" means a change of a state where, therefore, the variable "a" has the same value as what "b" refers to. This expression has a value that is the one of "b" (and of "a" by the way, while "a" is now known as having the same value as "b").
The characteristic that change between affirmative languages and C languages is that the equivalence operator "=" is commutative. In extenso, to write "a = b" or "b = a" is the same.
What is called affectation in C languages is called unification in NUL and other affirmative languages.

With syntax/semantic division, the NUL language intend to be able to understand a C program as well as a PROLOG program (with different syntax analyser)

For the ones used to C, Java, Php, ... imperative languages, please begin by reading the imperative to NUL guide.

NUL also intend to know fuzzy expressions. For example, a pair of two identic elements : ∀x (x, x)  . This expression is valid and known as it is by NUL.If you don't give it any other information, the NUL engine will just tell you it's a pair of similar elements (and it'll specify the element is named "x" if you asked debug info).

If you give him "a pair of two similar element that is also a pair whose first element is five" : ∀x ( x, x ) = ( 5, ?anything? )
The NUL engine will give as a result  ( 5, 5 ) , of course.
In the native syntax, the last expression is written :  \/x ( x, x ) = ( 5, _ )

Shape : For now, NUL comes as a Javascript interpreter. This means that you just have to create a web page, include the NUL javascript references and then make a call to NUL; to which you give a string : a NUL source code, and that gives you a NUL evaluated epression.
It is more like the javascript "eval" function, except that the awaited language is NUL and not javascript; but basically, if you give them the string "5 + 7", they both give you back the number 12 (knowing that NUL returns an object specifying "number" and such, without going through the javascript "typeof" system by instance).
NUL has for now several pages : a sandbox used indeed to debug the NUL interpreter (but that can be used to evaluate user-entered expressions in an input text) and a unit-testing page refering several NUL expressions and their expected value.