#summary Finite and infinite sets construction
#labels Language

= The braces =

The braces a way to transform a fuzzy epression into a "set containing all the values this fuzzy expression can take". It is ment by writing {{{ { ... } }}} around the fuzzy expression.

== Examples ==

{{{ 5, _ }}} means *a* pair begining by 5.

{{{ { 5, _ } }}} means *the* set containing *all the* pairs begining by 5.

{{{ 2 [] 3 }}} means *either* two, *either* three.

{{{ { 2 [] 3 } }}} means *the* set containing two *and* three.
_*The* set containing *all the values* that are either two, either three_

== Note ==

If the expression is not fuzzy, the set will then be a singleton. As sets and lists are the same entity, this syntax is used to write lists with one elements :
{{{
{ 1 }
1, 2
1, 2, 3
...
}}}

= The fuzzy-space =

Locals are defined within a _fuzzy-space_ .
To force a local to be declare in this _fuzzy-space_, it can be written {{{ \/x expression }}}
Where `expression` is a regular NUL expression and where `\/` stands for "for all"

== In english ==

|| \/x { x } || *a* singleton || "For any X, a set containing X" || X is defined out of the set ||
|| { \/x x } || *the* universal set || "A set containing any X" || X is defined in the set ||

The singleton can still be unified to many values, like to `{ 1 }`, `{ "John" }`, ...

If this singleton has to contain the number 42, it will, but it won't contain anything else then.

The universal set contains `1`, `"John"` and 42 ... all of these. It can beside be unified only to the universal set, as the number 5 can only be unified to the number 5 : it is not a fuzzy value.

`\/x { x }` is a singleton : which singleton? It depends of `x`.

`{ \/x x }` is a a set containing everything, it *doesn't* depends on `x` : `x` is not defined where we speak, outside of the set.

Exercice : Conceive {{{ \/x { \/y x, y } }}}